## SSH Connection
```shell
ssh-keygen -C lcompton-burnett@hotmail.com
eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
ssh-add github
ssh -T git@github.com
```
- This is roughly what it will look like.
- Line one generates the SSH key (Name it github).
- Line 3 then adds that SSH key to your list of keys
- and line 4 then connects to github.

## Initialising repositories
1. Initialise the repository and setup the first commit
```shell
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial Commit"
```
2. Now create an empty repo on github.
3. Now add the github repo to the local machine
```shell
git remote add origin {github link}
```
- Replace `{github link}` with the link to that repo that github provides.
- `remote` means a repository somewhere that is not on this computer, and 
- `origin` is like a variable name used to reference this repo as we can have multiple repos corresponding to the same folder. `origin` is the default name for if you have just 1
4. Push
```shell
git push origin master
// OR
git push -u origin master
```
- The structure of this command is `git push {repo} {branch}`
- The `-u` flag sets the 'upstream'. This means that for any future commits you don't need to specify the repo or branch, it will default to whatever you have set the upstream to.

#### Creating a remote repo locally
This is the same as step 2 from above, just if you want to do everything from the command line.
```shell
curl -u {username} https://api.github.com/user/repos -d "{\"name\":\"{Reop-Name}\",\"private\":true}"
// OR
curl -u {username}:{githubToken} https://api.github.com/user/repos -d "{\"name\":\"{reop-Name}\",\"private\":true}"
```
- Replace `{username}` with your github username
- Replace `{githubToken}` with a classic personal access token. These can be generated by going to [github](https://github.com/settings/tokens) . The token will need 'repo' permissions and nothing else.
- Replace `{repo-name}` with what you want to call the repository
- If you want the repo to be a public repo, then replace `private\":true` with `private\":false` 
Once done, you will receive a large chunk of json. The SSH URL to your github repo can be found under `ssh_url` in the json.
More info about this can be found [here](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/repos/repos?apiVersion=2022-11-28#create-a-repository-for-the-authenticated-user)

## Un-initialising a directory
To stop a directory being a git repository, simply delete the `.git` folder.